v0.2.0 Design Document

by the people listed in the credits under the RedmondTux section
no website yet

April 26, 2026

OVERVIEW
--------
This is the design document for v0.2.0, the second stable version
of the game. This v0.2.0 release of the game will feature:
- 8 enemies (v0.1.0 enemies, Clippeye, Adelie)
- 6 playable levels (updated versions of the antarctica levels)
Why not add a new world? Because doing that is too much for this
version, as it's just meant to improve on what's already there.

ENEMIES
-------
Only new enemies will be listed here.

  Clippeye
    This enemy is similar to the bouncing koopa enemy from the
    Super Mario Bros game, however, it can be killed in one
    hit, similar to the BSOD enemy.

  Adelie
    This enemy is unique! It usually walks around fast like a
    BSOD, but when it sees Tux, it runs towards him. When
    running towards Tux, it can't change direction, and when it 
    hits a wall while running, it falls off the screen.

BOSSES
------
This version will finally finish Antarctica by adding the boss
fight!

  GSOD (Green Screen Of Death)
    This boss starts on the right side of the screen, it has a 
    cannon that shoots fire, it's big, and it jumps to the other
    side when it gets hurt. You have to throw laptops at it, but
    when it gets down to 2/5 health, 2 blue flammables start
    surrounding it, which defend the GSOD against everything else,
    including Tux.

EXTRA ADDITION TO THE STORY
---------------------------
This is for when the boss is defeated. It's very similar to
SuperTux Milestone 1's ending.

  "First Clue"
    Tux had defeated GSOD, and was looking inside of it out of
    curiosity and to see whether there was anything he could find
    inside it, but all he found was a note by something that only
    called itself "Emperor". The note said:
    
    "Congratulations, Tux. If you are reading this, you have
    removed my control over Antarctica, however, you may see that
    your beloved Gown is not here. What you did not know, is I
    have many fortresses, spread across the lands! Do not be
    silly. It is best that you give up now."
    
    Tux was sadly walking across the throne room, when he came
    across another note, this one was by Gown. It was a map with
    a fortress badly drawn in a jungle. Tux knew what this meant,
    Gown was in a fortress in the jungle! When Tux came to this
    realization, alarms started going off in the castle, and he
    could see it falling behind him! So he ran out, entered the
    water, and started swimming without looking behind him!

    When he got to an island, he saw that he was on a beach. At
    first, he thought he was at the wrong place, until he saw that
    the jungle was right in front of him, and realized he was in
    the correct place.

MISC
----
Aspect Ratio
  The aspect ratio should be set to 16:9 480p, which is 640x480.

LEVELS
------
The levels should be improved, however, there shouldn't be any
new levels for now. Maybe, if there's any good fanmade levels,
they could be added to a bonus world.

OBJECTS
-------
The only new objects here for this version is a new power-up!

  Ice Cube
    This power-up turns Tux into Ice Tux! Ice Tux can shoot
    ice at the cost of the ability to duck, which is replaced
    with the ability for Tux to grow icicles around him.

  
